header, main, footer, umd-utility-header, .footer-cta, .skip-content {
      display: none; }
Office of Undergraduate Admissions | Freshman Application FAQs
window.dataLayer = window.dataLayer || [];
function gtag(){dataLayer.push(arguments)};
gtag('js', new Date());
gtag('config', 'G-ZK3FHBFJ1Z', {'send_page_view': true,'anonymize_ip': false,'link_attribution': false,'allow_display_features': false});
/* Google Tag Manager script did not render */
Skip to main content
Undergraduate
Admissions
Visit UMD
Apply Now
Connect
Search
Academics
All Programs
Colleges & Schools
Limited Enrollment Programs
LEP Admission for Current Students
Living-Learning & Special Programs
Want more information about our majors?
Academics
Student Life
Want to learn more about life as a Terp?
Student Life
Housing & Dining
Student Support & Safety
Get Involved on Campus
Find Your Community
How To Apply
Freshman Applicants
Transfer Applicants
Maryland Transfer Advantage Program
Maryland Transfer Advantage Program FAQs
International Applicants
English Language Proficiency
Obtaining a Visa
Financial Certification
Shady Grove Applicants
Shady Grove Terp Transfer Partnership
Application Deadlines
Admission Review Process & Factors
Application FAQs
Freshman Application FAQs
Transfer Application FAQ
Essay Questions
Submitting Documents
Ready to apply?
How to Apply
Tuition & Aid
Need more information on cost of attendance at UMD,  financing your education and merit scholarships?
Tuition & Aid
Cost of Attendance
Freshman Merit Scholarships
Transfer Merit Scholarships
Frederick Douglass Scholarship
Office of Student Financial Aid
Update to Enrollment Confirmation Deadline
Due to the shifted FAFSA 2024-2025 timeline;
1. We have extended our 2024-25
FAFSA filing priority deadline
to
April 1,  2024
.
2. We have extended our
freshmen
Fall 2024 enrollment confirmation deadline
to
May 15, 2024
Home
Application FAQs
Freshman Application FAQs
Freshman Application FAQs
Have questions about the University of Maryland (UMD) application process? We have answers. Save time by reviewing these frequently asked questions about the freshman application before contacting the Office of Undergraduate Admissions.
Applying to UMD
How can I apply to UMD?
Freshman students applying to UMD can do so using either the
Common App
or
StandOut Admissions Network
.
When is the application deadline?
The freshman early action deadline for fall admission is November 1. If you submit a completed application by this deadline, you will receive priority consideration for admission to the university,
merit-based scholarships
and
special programs
. For more information, please review our complete listing of all
application deadlines.
Is the early action deadline binding? If I'm admitted, when do I have to confirm my enrollment?
The November 1 early action deadline is non-binding. If you are admitted, you will have until May 1 to confirm your enrollment at UMD.
What happens if my application is incomplete by the early action deadline? What about the regular deadline?
If you are unable to complete your application by the November 1 early action deadline, you can still be considered for admission if you submit a completed application and all required materials by the January 20 regular deadline.
Applications completed after the regular application deadline will only be reviewed on a rolling, space-available basis.
What essay questions will UMD use on the application?
You can choose from a selection of essay questions. Please visit our
Essay Questions
page for more information.
How does UMD review applications for admission?
The undergraduate admissions process is rigorous and individualized. UMD employs a holistic review process that utilizes
24 unique review factors
.
Application Platforms
Will my application be reviewed differently if I apply using the Common App or StandOut Admissions Network platform?
No. UMD employs a holistic review process that utilizes
24 unique review factors
. The Admission Committee will undertake an individualized, rigorous and holistic review of each application, assessing academic merit, achievements and potential in the context of the opportunities and challenges the student faced.
Is the application fee different between the Common App and the StandOut Admissions Network platform?
No. The application fee is $75 on both platforms.
When can I begin to use  Common App or the StandOut Admissions Network?
You can begin using the Common App at any point in your high school career. Once you
create an account
, you can complete the Common App tab and add schools to the My Colleges list.
You can begin using the StandOut Admissions Network platform at any time. Once you
create an account
, you can access the Profile, Locker and Colleges sections to organize items for your college application.
How do I share my information with UMD?
To share your contact information with UMD on the Common App, you must first create an account, opt-in to receiving messages from colleges and add UMD to your My Colleges list. Information entered on the Common App tab will later be incorporated directly into your application(s) when you begin the application process.
To share your contact information with UMD on the StandOut Admissions Network platform, you must first create an account and complete your profile. Profile information will later be transferred directly to your StandOut Admissions Network applications when you begin the application process. Once your profile is complete, you can search for the University of Maryland on the Colleges tab and select "add to list". Once added, you will be asked if you would like to opt-in to sharing your contact information with UMD. We will receive this information and add you to our mailing list.
Who should I contact if I'm experiencing technical challenges with the application platforms?
If you are experiencing challenges with the Common App platform, account creation and/or password issues, you should seek assistance via the Common App’s
Solutions Center
.
For assistance with StandOut Admissions Network account creation, password issues and any challenges with the platform or tools, please contact StandOut's
Help Center
.
Application process and status questions should be emailed to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions at
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu
.
Completing Your Application
What do I need to submit for my application to be complete?
For an application to be complete, all items on the
application checklist
must be submitted and received by our office. Only completed applications will be reviewed and receive an admissions decision.
How do I submit application documents like letters of recommendation and transcripts?
In Common App, counselors/teachers you've added to your "Invite and Manage Recommenders" list will be able to electronically submit your official transcript(s) through the School Report in addition to your letters of recommendation. This can be completed even after you've submitted your UMD application.
In StandOut Admissions Network, counselors/teachers you've sent requests to will be able to electronically submit your official transcript(s) and letters of recommendation. The documents will appear in your Locker and from there you must attach them to your application in order for them to be submitted.
For a list of acceptable submission methods, review our
Submitting Documents
page. Items submitted outside of Common App or StandOut Admissions Network can take up to 10 business days to process and reflect in your Terps Application Portal checklist.
Can I submit more than two letters of recommendation?
Yes. UMD requires two letters of recommendation for a completed application: one from your school counselor and one from a teacher. If you have additional letters of recommendation you would like to submit, please feel free to do so.
Will UMD superscore my standardized test scores?
Yes, we superscore both the SAT and ACT. We use the highest subscores from the SAT and ACT in our review of your application, so it is to your benefit to submit all of your test scores. Please note that we will accept scores from the
redesigned SAT
, first administered in March 2016, but these scores will not be combined with scores from the old SAT.
Is the writing portion of the SAT/ACT required? What about subject tests?
No, we do not require subject tests or scores from the writing sections of the SAT or ACT. Even if these scores are sent to us, they are not one of the
24 factors
we review for admission.
Test Optional
Is UMD test-optional and, if so, what does test-optional mean?
Yes. UMD is currently test-optional and has extended this policy through to the Spring and Fall 2025 application cycles. This means that students applying between now and Fall 2025 will not be required to submit standardized test scores. Students can decide whether or not to include SAT/ACT scores with their application.
Why is UMD offering test-optional admission?
UMD first implemented its test-optional policy due to the limitations of testing in some areas hardest hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. UMD is currently assessing the impact of this policy on our students and the admission process to inform its standardized test score requirement for application cycles beyond Fall 2025.
How do I indicate that I would like my application to be evaluated with or without my test scores?
You will be able to indicate your test-optional status on your application.
Can I change my test-optional status?
No. Once you submit your application, your response to the test-optional question will be final and your status cannot be changed.
What will happen if I have submitted my test scores but indicate that I want my application to be evaluated without them?
The Admission Committee will not consider submitted SAT/ACT test scores in the application review if the student has indicated that they would like their application to be evaluated without them.
How will UMD evaluate students who do not choose to have their test scores considered as a part of their application?
The Admission Committee uses a holistic, full-file review. This means the Committee will consider all factors of your application including grades earned in academic coursework, trends in your grades, your performance in honors, International Baccalaureate and Advanced Placement, A/AS level courses (when available in your school), your letters of recommendation, your essay, extracurricular activities and other achievements.
If I do not send in my test scores, can I still be considered for merit scholarships and special programs?
Yes. The review processes for merit scholarships and for our living-learning and other special programs will also be test-optional.
Will any of the Limited Enrollment Programs require that I submit my official SAT/ACT test scores?
The review processes for
Limited Enrollment Programs
will also be test-optional.
Will UMD still require English language proficiency scores?
Yes. Standardized tests such as the Duolingo English Test, the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) and the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) are still required for non-native English speakers. To learn more about this requirement, please visit our
English Language Proficiency
page.
After Submitting Your Application
How do I know if my application materials have been received?
You can track your application status and confirm receipt of application materials online through the
Terps Application Portal
(TAP). Within two business days after submitting your application, you will receive an email with instructions on how to create a TAP account. It may take up to 10 business days for recently submitted materials to be listed as received on your checklist and it is your responsibility to confirm receipt of all required materials.
I submitted my standardized test scores more than 10 business days ago, but it does not appear that UMD received them. Why is that?
Standardized test scores can take several weeks to process and be received by our office. Please confirm that the testing agency submitted your scores to the University of Maryland, College Park, using the SAT code 5814 or ACT code 1746. Applicants often send their scores to other institutions in the University System of Maryland by mistake.
If your scores were sent to the University of Maryland, College Park, confirm that the first, middle and last names indicated on your test are the same as those used on your application. Different spellings can result in scores not matching with application files.
If you have confirmed both of these details and still have questions, please email us at
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu
for assistance.
If I submit new test scores and/or application materials after the deadline, will they be reviewed with the rest of my application?
Only materials received or postmarked by the deadline will be reviewed for admission. We cannot guarantee that new scores or materials received or postmarked after the deadline will be reviewed as part of your application
I made an error with my social security number. What should I do?
If you listed the incorrect social security number on your application, please email us at
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu
using the subject line "SSN Error" and include your full name, date of birth and a message regarding the mistake.
Do not include your corrected number or a copy of your card in your email
to our office. Once we receive your email, we will provide you with next steps for resolving this issue.
If you intend to apply for financial aid using the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA), it is important that you include your social security number on your application to ensure your FAFSA information is processed correctly.
My demographic information has changed since submitting my application. How can I correct this?
Please email us at
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu
using the subject line "App Demographic Info Changes". In the body of the email, please write your full name, date of birth and the high school you attend along with any demographic information that should be updated.
How will I know when my admission decision is available for review?
Our office will send you an email notification when your admission decision is ready. When you receive this email, you can view your admission decision online by logging in to your
Terps Application Portal
. For security and privacy reasons, we cannot reveal admission decisions over the phone or email.
If you are offered admission to UMD, you will also receive a general welcome letter from our office in the mail a few days later. Unlike the virtual letter, this hard copy will not include your major or university identification number (UID).
How do you evaluate college credit earned while in high school?
We are most interested in how you performed in your high school courses. Admission decisions will be based primarily on
factors
typically submitted in the application, although college credit may be used as one additional piece of information.
Costs & Aid
What is the cost of tuition?
Visit the Office of Student Financial Aid website to review the
estimated tuition and fees
for UMD.
How do I apply for merit and need-based financial aid?
If you submit a completed application by the November 1 early action deadline, you will automatically be reviewed for all merit scholarships. No separate application is required.
If you plan to seek need-based financial aid, you should complete the
Free Application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA). You can submit your FAFSA prior to completing your UMD admission application. Be sure to include your social security number when submitting both your FAFSA and UMD application. We encourage you to review the Office of Student Financial Aid's website for information on the
financial aid process
and
FAFSA FAQs
.
When is the FAFSA deadline and what is UMD's school code?
UMD's priority deadline for submitting the 2024-25 FAFSA is
April 1, 2024
. Our school code is 002103.
Aside from merit scholarships and submitting the FAFSA, what are other options for financing my education?
There are various
types of financial aid
available at UMD which can be classified as either need-based, meaning you and your family are not able to cover education expenses, or non-need based, which generally refers to aid you receive based on merit or qualification.
How and when will I find out if I received financial aid or a scholarship?
For admitted freshman students who applied by the November 1 early action deadline, financial aid decisions will be released electronically
as soon as possible
. Students awarded a merit scholarship will receive an email notification by April 1. Admitted freshman students who applied by the January 20 regular deadline are not considered for merit scholarships but will be notified in early April.
What are the residency requirements for in-state tuition?
In order to qualify for in-state tuition, you must prove that you (or your parent/guardian if you're a financially dependent student) are a financially contributing citizen of the state of Maryland and have been so for at least one full year (12 consecutive months). To demonstrate eligibility for Maryland residency, you must submit the residency questionnaire portion of the admission application. Residency can be determined by factors such as holding a Maryland driver’s license, paying Maryland taxes and proving that the primary reason for living in Maryland is not to attend the university. For the full policy, please visit the
Office of the Registrar
's website.
I have a relative who is a veteran. Can these benefits be applied to my tuition costs?
You may be eligible to receive these benefits at UMD. Information regarding
veteran benefits
can be found on the Office of the Registrar website.
We do not need proof of military service and other related documentation until after you are offered admission to the university.
There is a lot more to learn about UMD, so let's stay in touch!
Join Our Mailing List
Connect
Undergraduate Admissions
Mitchell Building
7999 Regents Dr.
College Park, MD 20742
1-800-422-5867
ApplyMaryland@umd.edu
Majors & Minors
Student Life
Admissions Requirements
Application Deadlines
Application Deadlines
Tuition & Aid
Information For:
Prospective Students
Parents & Families
Counselors & Advisors
Counselors & Advisors
Admitted Students
Visit UMD
Apply Now
Connect
umd.edu
Privacy Policy
Web Accessibility
© 2023 UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
!function(f,b,e,v,n,t,s) {if(f.fbq)return;n=f.fbq=function(){n.callMethod?
  n.callMethod.apply(n,arguments):n.queue.push(arguments)};
  if(!f._fbq)f._fbq=n;n.push=n;n.loaded=!0;n.version='2.0';
  n.queue=[];t=b.createElement(e);t.async=!0;
  t.src=v;s=b.getElementsByTagName(e)[0];
  s.parentNode.insertBefore(t,s)}(window,document,'script',
  'https://connect.facebook.net/en_US/fbevents.js'); fbq('init',
  '645651512593354'); fbq('track', 'PageView');
{"@context":"http://schema.org","@graph":[{"@type":"WebSite","author":{"@id":"https://umd.edu#identity"},"copyrightHolder":{"@id":"https://umd.edu#identity"},"copyrightYear":"2023","creator":{"@id":"https://omc.umd.edu#creator"},"dateCreated":"2023-03-29T06:17:14-07:00","dateModified":"2024-02-13T07:44:04-08:00","datePublished":"2023-03-29T06:20:00-07:00","description":"Answers to frequently asked questions about freshman application platforms and components such as standardized test scores and recommendation letters. Also includes information on merit and need-based aid.","headline":"Freshman Application FAQs","image":{"@type":"ImageObject","url":"https://umd-admissions.transforms.svdcdn.com/production/hero/og.jpg?w=1200&h=630&q=82&auto=format&fit=crop&dm=1685464457&s=374d08886ed8a8dfe507669ca155aa6c"},"inLanguage":"en-us","mainEntityOfPage":"https://admissions.umd.edu/apply/freshman-application-faqs","name":"Freshman Application FAQs","publisher":{"@id":"https://omc.umd.edu#creator"},"url":"https://admissions.umd.edu/apply/freshman-application-faqs"},{"@id":"https://umd.edu#identity","@type":"LocalBusiness","description":"With over 100 majors across 12 colleges and schools, we have you covered. Pick one, pick two or even create your own major through our Individual Studies Program and explore a new interest through one of our 80+ minors.","name":"University of Maryland","priceRange":"$","sameAs":["https://twitter.com/ApplyMaryland","https://www.facebook.com/ApplyMaryland","https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Maryland,_College_Park","https://www.linkedin.com/school/university-of-maryland/mycompany/verification/","https://www.youtube.com/user/UMD2101","https://www.instagram.com/applymaryland/","https://github.com/orgs/UMD-Digital","https://vimeo.com/umd"],"url":"https://umd.edu"},{"@id":"https://omc.umd.edu#creator","@type":"LocalBusiness","alternateName":"Web Services","name":"Office of Marketing and Communications","priceRange":"$","url":"https://omc.umd.edu"},{"@type":"BreadcrumbList","description":"Breadcrumbs list","itemListElement":[{"@type":"ListItem","item":"https://admissions.umd.edu","name":"Homepage","position":1},{"@type":"ListItem","item":"https://admissions.umd.edu/apply/freshman-application-faqs","name":"Freshman Application FAQs","position":2}],"name":"Breadcrumbs"}]}